## Authentication

### Definition (Who are you?)

**Authentication** is the process of verifying that a user is who they claim to be. For example, when you go through security at an airport, you show your ID to authenticate/prove your identity.

**Status Code:** `401 Unauthorized`

### Why Is User Authentication Important?

- Helps verify identity before accessing network or resources
- Ensures that only authorized users can access protected resources
- Prevents unauthorized users from performing malicious activities

### Types of Authentication:

- #### Stateful Authentication (i.e. session-based, etc)

  `You can revoke the authentication session on the Identity Provider(*IdP*) anytime.`

  The server needs to store state information about the user in order to authenticate them. This state information can be stored in a database, in memory, or in a distributed cache.

  ##### Advantages:

  - Revoke the session anytime
  - More secure than stateless authentication
  - Speed & Performance is better as there's no need to process extensive data
  - Easy to implement and manage for one-session-sever scenario but complex otherwise
  - Session data can be changed later (assume that for a one-session-sever, no inconsistent problem)

  ##### Disadvantages:

  - **Increasing server overhead:** As the number of logged-in users increases, the more server resources are occupied.
  - **Fail to scale:** If the sessions are distributed in different servers, we need to implement a tracking algorithm to link a specific user session and the specific session sever. That means, once Bob’s session is handled by X server, then all Bob’s following requests must be handled by X server. This can be done by adding a tag to the client request in the proxy layer (e.g. HAProxy) before routing to the backend. The proxy layer uses this tag to determine which backend server to route.
    Furthermore, if the session servers are deployed with duplication to have fail-over, the problem becomes more complicated since the 2+ peers duplicating each other must implement an algorithm to make sure the consistency of their sessions.
  - **Difficult for 3rd party applications to use your credentials:** When a 3rd party application enables your users to login to their website, the 3rd party application is not able to directly verify your users’ session (as they are stored on your backend). The verification must be redirected to the credential servers. Therefore, there is more work between 3rd party application and the backend.

- #### Stateless Authentication (i.e. token using JWT, OAuth, etc.)

  `You cannot revoke the authentication session on the Identity Provider(*IdP*) manually, have to wait for the expiration time.`

  The client stores the state information in a cookie. This means that the server does not need to store any state information about the user in order to authenticate them.

  ##### Advantages:

  - **Lower server overhead:** The large amount of session data is not stored on the server-side. We can store more user properties on the client-side session data to reduce the number of database access without worrying the memory overhead on the server.
  - **Easy to scale:** Since the session data is stored on the client side, it does not matter which backend server the request is routed to, as long as all backend servers share the same private key (for signing), then all servers have the same capability to verify the validity of the session.
  - **Good to integrate with 3rd party applications:** In the single sign-on protocols, the 3rd party applications and the IdP must be able to communicate with each other via user agents (browser). During the account linking process between 3rd party applications and IdP, IdP sends a signed message to the browser, and the browser redirects this message to the 3rd party applications. Using a pre-configured shared secret, the 3rd party applications can determine whether the account linking (single sign-on) is valid by itself.

  ##### Disadvantages:

  - **Cannot revoke the session anytime:** Since the user session is stored at client side, the server does not have any rights to delete the session.
  - **Relatively complex to implement for one-session-server scenario:** The advantages of stateless authentication is scalability. However, it increases the technical complexity and it is not extremely useful when we only have one-session-server.
  - **Session data cannot be changed until its expiration time:** Suppose we want to add “Age” property to the session data above, probably we can ask the client to update it, but we cannot make sure the client does update it, since its previously session data is not expired yet, then the client still has the chance to make requests with old session data.

  ##### Improved stateless authentication:

  - Assign clients the permission (send the clients a unique refresh token) to request an extension lifetime of session data.
  - Set the expiration time of user data to 24 hours (instead of one month).
  - Each time the session data is expired, the client issues a request (attached with a valid refresh token) to the server to renew the session data.
    `With this improvement, we can have the scalability and performance advantages of stateless authentication. Though we still cannot revoke the session data immediately, while we can forbid its lifetime extension by revoking the refresh token.`
  - We can also blacklist tokens that have already been used to prevent attacks.

### Some Authentication Methods:

- Passwords – considered “old school” and less secure but are still commonly used in almost all authentication schemes.
- One-Time Passwords (OTPs) – grants a user or device one-time access to a system. Authentication systems can deliver an OTP via email, text message, or a physical access token.
- Token Authentication – grants access to a user or device based on an access token they possess. The token can be a hardware device or a software token passed to their browser from an identity provider.
- Single Sign-On (SSO)‍ – enables login to multiple applications via a central identity provider. The identity provider can be a service with a large user base, such as Google or Facebook, or an organizational identity provider, such as Active Directory.
- Biometric Authentication – uses an inherence factor, such as the user’s face or fingerprint to identify them. There are increasingly sophisticated ways to compare a photo or scan of a person’s biological traits with a database of known identities.
- Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) – This methodology combines multiple forms of authentication to improve security. Typically, an MFA scheme will augment passwords with token-based authentication, OTP, biometric authentication, or several of these.
- Passwordless Authentication – This is basically a variation on MFA, which uses two authentication factors including fingerprints, magic links, or OTAs (over-the-air) to authenticate users without a password.

### Which Authentication Method Should You Choose?

- Only Web Application - Cookie/Session Based
- Expose APIs to user - Token Based
- Web + Mobile Apps - Cookie and Token Based
- Letting users login easily Oauth
- Building apps on top of Google/Facebook - SSO

### Authentication In a Distributed System

In a monolithic application the authentication APIs are tightly coupled to the app itself I.e., we will have a single DB storing both the user information and the business data. In that case there is a single instance of a server responsible for authentication.

In a distributed system with microservices architecture the design becomes a bit more complicated.

#### Authentication inside every microservice

Microservices architecture directly translates to independent services working together with that ideology in mind “Auth inside every microservice” looks like an anti-pattern. Though an advantage of this method is reduced latency, we would end up doing a bunch of redundant things at every server.

#### Authentication as a filter

This method allows endpoints to respond after the authentication system verifies the session and proxies the request.
The filter approach is achieved through standard routing and networking where each request to the application passes through this point before arriving at the destination.

In this scenario, all traffic is filtered through an authentication proxy. This inspects the request for relevant information (a valid cookie, OAuth token, and so on) and verifies it. Upon successful verification, the request is sent to the appropriate service via a routing layer to be completed. If the authentication couldn’t be performed, then the proxy will ask the user to provide valid credentials before continuing. This example assumes that the system is composed of several components. If your system is a single program, where all parts run under the same codebase, you’ll naturally fall into this category. As with any choice, there are benefits and drawbacks to this approach.

The drawback of this method is that auth service itself will become a bottleneck as the number of requests scales up.

#### Global Authentication

The most commonly practiced method in microservice architecture where the authentication system sets a JWT token to the client and any request that made to the services are then cross verified with the Global system.

### Authentication Features!

- login/logout/register + session expiry
- email verification (`"Confirm your email"`)
- password reset (`"Forgot password"`)
- password confirmation (`"Re-enter your password"`)
- persistent login (`"Remember me"`)
- account lockout (`"Too many failed login attempts"`)
- rate limiting (`"Too many requests"`)

#### Session Management

- HTTP is a stateless protocol; each req is self-contained
- sessions used to retain user state between requests
- session cookie ties a request to the user's session

#### Session Timeout

- idle/inactivity: sliding expiration, resets on each request
- absolute: fixed expiration, max duration of lifetime
- renewal: interval until session ID is regenerated

#### Password Storage

##### Attacks

- rainbow table attack: using a lookup table to derive original pwd from its hash
- dictionary attack: trying common passwords from a dict
- brute force attack: trying all possible password combinations

##### Salt & Pepper

- salt: unique string appended to pwd before hashing
  - not secret, stored in plaintext in DB, thwarts rainbow table attacks
- pepper: secret salt, i.e. key (either appended or signed with, e.g. HMAC)
  - NOT stored in DB, only on the server; slows down brute-force attacks

##### Approaches

1. hash `bcrypt(passphrase, salt)`
2. pre-hash `bcrypt(sha256(passphrase).base64(), salt)`
   - sha256/sha512 digest may contain null bytes (end of string)
   - do NOT use raw binary; wrap with base64
3. pre-hash with a key (pepper) `bcrypt(hmac_sha256(passphrase, key).base64(), salt)`
4. hash & encrypt `aes256(bcrypt(passphrase, salt), key, iv)`
5. pre-hash & encrypt `aes256( bcrypt(sha256(passphrase).base64(), salt), key, iv )`

#### Email Verification/Confirmation

##### Flow

1. user signs up on the website
2. server generates & signs an activation link
   - link expires after X hours/days
3. servers sends an email with the link
4. user visits the link & verifies their account
5. (optional) user requests the link to be resent
   - if link hasn't expired, resend
   - else, generate & email a new link

##### Requirements

- token is not (easily) predictable
- URL is signed to guard against forgery
- older email links are valid until expiry

#### Password Reset/Recovery

##### Flow

1. user visits "Forgot Password" page
2. user fills in their email and submits the form
3. server generates a unique & random token
4. server hashes the token and saves the **hash** & **exp. date** in DB
   - if DB is compromised, attacker can't use the hash to reset user pwd
5. server constructs a link with plaintext token and emails the user
6. user visits the link and submits a new password
7. server verifies the token and updates user password

##### Tokens

- at least 32 chars long (OWASP)
- generated using a secure PRNG (Pseudorandom number generator)
  - don't use current time, user email/ID
- hashed before stored in DB (tokens = credentials)
- one-time use
- short-lived (has exp. date)

##### Deactivation

- when a new one is issued, delete all older tokens
  - simpler DB design, poorer UX
- when the password is reset (either all or expired only)
  - more complex DB design, better UX

#### Password Confirmation

- periodically require logged-in user to re-enter their password
- used on sensitive pages, e.g. payment info or orders

#### Persistent Login

##### Requirements

- remember users on multiple devices
- sign the cookie to prevent forgery (and possibly encrypt)
- check for cookie expiry [server-side](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5969932)
- once logged out, clear remember me token & unset the cookie

##### Approaches

- extend expiration date (e.g. 2 hours -> 1 week)
- set a remember-me cookie with a signed token
  - re-instate an auth session
  - if detected an anomaly (e.g. pwd reset), unset cookie & return 401
