HLD/Design Gurus/Grokking System Design Fundamentals/01. Load Balancing/Cue-Sum.md, before:

### Cues

1. What is `load balancing`? Why do we need it?
2. Where is the `load balancer` located in a system design?
3. Does placing the `load balancer` between the client and the server achieve maximum benefit?
4. What is `Session Persistence`?
5. What is `SSL/TLS Termination`?
6. How do `Load Balancers` work?
7. What are some common uses of `load balancing`?
8. How does load balancing use the `Round Robin Algorithm`?
9. How does load balancing use the `Least Connections Algorithm`?
10. How does load balancing use the `Weighted Round Robin Algorithm`?
11. How does load balancing use the `Weighted Least Connections Algorithm`?
12. How does load balancing use the `IP Hash Algorithm`?
13. How does load balancing use the `Least Response Time Algorithm`?
14. How does load balancing use the `Custom Load Algorithm`?
15. How does load balancing use the `Random Algorithm`?
16. How does load balancing use the `Least Bandwidth Algorithm`?
17. Can you list some common load balancing types?
18. What is `Hardware Load Balancing`?
19. What is `Software Load Balancing`?
20. What is `Cloud-Based Load Balancing`?
21. What is `DNS Load Balancing`?
22. What is `Global Server Load Balancing`?
23. What is `Hybrid Load Balancing`?
24. What is `Layer 4 Load Balancing`?
25. What is `Layer 7 Load Balancing`?

### Summary

Commit message:

stateless vs stateful load balancing

HLD/Design Gurus/Grokking System Design Fundamentals/01. Load Balancing/Cue-Sum.md, after:

### Cues

1. What is `load balancing`? Why do we need it?
2. Where is the `load balancer` located in a system design?
3. Does placing the `load balancer` between the client and the server achieve maximum benefit?
4. What is `Session Persistence`?
5. What is `SSL/TLS Termination`?
6. How do `Load Balancers` work?
7. What are some common uses of `load balancing`?
8. How does load balancing use the `Round Robin Algorithm`?
9. How does load balancing use the `Least Connections Algorithm`?
10. How does load balancing use the `Weighted Round Robin Algorithm`?
11. How does load balancing use the `Weighted Least Connections Algorithm`?
12. How does load balancing use the `IP Hash Algorithm`?
13. How does load balancing use the `Least Response Time Algorithm`?
14. How does load balancing use the `Custom Load Algorithm`?
15. How does load balancing use the `Random Algorithm`?
16. How does load balancing use the `Least Bandwidth Algorithm`?
17. Can you list some common load balancing types?
18. What is `Hardware Load Balancing`?
19. What is `Software Load Balancing`?
20. What is `Cloud-Based Load Balancing`?
21. What is `DNS Load Balancing`?
22. What is `Global Server Load Balancing`?
23. What is `Hybrid Load Balancing`?
24. What is `Layer 4 Load Balancing`?
25. What is `Layer 7 Load Balancing`?
26. What are `Stateless Load Balancers`?
27. What are `Stateful Load Balancers`?
28. Can `Stateful load balancing` be further categorized?

### Summary
